fix: regressions in Netlify adapter (#14078)
withastro/astro: .changeset/fifty-pets-knock.md

---
'@astrojs/netlify': patch
---

Defaults to not injecting environment variables from Netlify

> `@astrojs/netlify@6.5.0` introduced a potentially breaking change that enabled injecting Netlify environment variables in `astro dev` by default. This could lead to unexpected behavior in Astro projects that do not expect these variables to be present. This now defaults to disabled, and users can enable it by setting the `devFeatures.environmentVariables` option in their Astro config. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`@astrojs/netlify@6.5.0` introduced a potentially breaking change that enabled some features in `astro dev` by default. The new `devFeatures` configuration option allows you to independently control these features in your development environment. 

The adapter will no longer inject Netlify environment variables in `astro dev` by default. This led to unexpected behavior in Astro projects that did not expect these variables to be present. You can enable this by setting the `devFeatures.environmentVariables` option in your Astro config:
```
Noting here that I'm realizing this is top-level, and not a Netlify adapter config (which I think is maybe confusing if these apply *only* to the Netlify adapter? Are we setting the stage for support for other adapters? Will totally affect docs, and be more difficult to explain if this is a setting that *only* applies for one particular adapter, and yet is called `devFeatures`.)

Editing the text as-is now, but would expect to eventually say e.g. `enable this by setting the option in your *Netlify* config` if the option is moved.

```js
import { defineConfig } from 'astro/config';
import netlify from '@astrojs/netlify';

export default defineConfig({
  integrations: [netlify()],
  devFeatures: {
    environmentVariables: true,
  },
});
```

> You can also set `devFeatures` to `true` to enable or disable all dev features, including environment variables and images:

Reviewer: Noting that before this, we really should have an example of the image option, show that it can be set to false if necessary.

---
'@astrojs/netlify': patch
---

> Adds a new `devFeatures` configuration option to control some of the behaviors introduced in `@astrojs/netlify@6.5.0` which introduced Netlify production features into the dev environment.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Adds a new `devFeatures` configuration option to control some of the behaviors introduced in `@astrojs/netlify@6.5.0`, which introduced Netlify production features into the dev environment.
```

Reviewer 2: Nice catch, edited my suggestion to include this change as well!

> You can now individually configure whether or not to populate your environment with the variables from your linked Netlify site (now disabled by default), and using a local version of the Netlify Image CDN for images (still enabled by default) when running `astro dev`.

Author: I prefer Yan's
